Do you know what it is? Like I I find
the most pernicious and most
unacceptable type of feminist as a
Muslim feminist. Do you know why?
Because a a true feminist like of a
second wave complexion or uh background
orientation.
She would everything's 50/50. Domestic
house work is 50/50. Yeah.
True.
And also finances are 50/50. XY Z is
50/50. Yeah. Everything is that is what
the ideology says. Yeah, Neoi who wrote
the feminist manifesto said everything
should be equal except for breastfeeding
and she gave that only there's the only
exception in her little pamphlet book
that she wrote which is not really an
academic book anyway but it's popular
so she the everything should be 50/50 no
problem if everything is 50/50 which
means I'm not going to be putting
extracting half of my resources for you
I'm I'm going to save money I don't need
to do this I don't need to protect you
in fact protection is 50/50 if someone
comes in a burglar I don't need to
protect so on all that stuff is 50/50 so
if If I'm of a feminist, I would rather
be
Yeah. putting religious put if we're
just talking just based on the the the
the domesticity or lack thereof or the
interactivity, domestic interactivity
and transactional nature of the domestic
environment between man and woman. I
would rather be with a feminist than I
would be with a Muslim feminist. Why?
Like a Christian. I'd rather be with a
Christian femin or something. Why?
Because at least she has a sense of
consist self-consistency. everything is
50/50. But the Muslim feminist, she
wants to take the resources, which means
she wants to not make it 50/50 when it
comes to finances and work and
protection plus,
so she wants to take all of the things
her entire Islamic entitlements plus she
wants to have her feministic
entitlements. So she wants a double
entitlement.
That woman is a leech. That woman is
just a leech and she needs to be called
out in the community. People like
yourself need to say, "Listen, don't
leech off the man. You choose what you
want to be. You want to be a Muslim.
This is Islam and you know this feminism
is different and you can't mix and if
you want to be both then you're going to
end up being a leech a charity. You're a
charity. You are a charity. You might as
well go to Oxfam and put your hands out
like this. This is what you should do
with all due respect. I'm sorry I'm
going but this the entitled nature of
some people that want both. If you if
you want 50/50 then you have to provide
50/50.
Right. Right.
Do do you see the point here?
Yeah. Yeah. No, I totally get your
point. I think it's interesting because
anecdotally again um the the the
experience of of brothers kind of on
these matrimonial apps etc. is pretty
much what you're saying. So I'm I'm
hearing again and again about sisters
who want the traditional benefits.
Exactly.
But don't want the traditional
responsibilities.
Allahbar. This is beautiful.
They want the traditional.
You said what I was trying to say for
like four or five minutes. You said it
in like one sentence.
They want the traditional benefits but
they do not want the traditional
responsibilities. They don't want that
role.
So a sister will say Islamically you
have to provide for me. You have to pay
off my car. You have to do this. You
know I I like this. I like this. I like
that financially. And if you can't
provide financially, this conversation
is over. Okay? It's over. It doesn't
matter. The sister can be she's got
three kids. She could be 45 years old.
And I know, you know, people don't like
this, but some of us, and I'm going to
say us, cuz I'm not pointing fingers
here. I'm looking in the mirror. Okay? I
want people to understand that I'm not
pointing fingers at anyone. I'm looking
in the mirror. And I'm very well aware
that some people, mashallah, at certain
stages of life, Allah's blessed them
with certain things where mashallah,
they they can make demands and people
fall over themselves to fulfill those
demands. Mah, because they're they're
highly sought after. They're highly
priced, right? If you're a sister who is
older, you have children or you've been
divorced, whatever the case may be,
right? You don't want to have any more
kids, okay? Uh you you've got your And
the thing is what I've also found is
with us as women, the older we get, the
more life experience we've had, the more
we've been married, the more we've had
children, the more demanding we become.
Not the less, the more demanding we
become. So by the time you're 35 and on
your second marriage or you're 40 and
you want to find a third husband, your
list of what you want and what you won't
put up with etc. is very long now
because you've been you've experienced
certain things. You came out of the
first marriage, you're like, "Well, I
don't want that again." Now that's new
things added to your list that next
time.
Is it more of a um is it more of a
negative thing rather than it is an
affirmative thing? Like
maybe it could be. It could be I don't
want this. I don't want this rather than
I want this. It could be that. It could
I'm not going to do this again. I'm not
going to go for that kind of guy. But I
think the point that I'm making anyway
is um aside from all of that because
maybe somebody will hear this and say,
"Well, that's not me. You know, I'm not
like that. I don't know anybody like
that." Which is fair enough. The point
that I'm making is while you sis are
making all those demands, those Islamic,
very Islamic demands, traditional
demands on this man, you are saying out
of your mouth, I don't cook. I don't
clean. Um, I'm not going to obey. I
don't wear hijab.
Forget it. I mean, who if you might as
well just say whatever. Go marry uh my
sister.
But you but this is this is for me why
I'm having this conversation. I'm trying
to have this conversation in with
sisters is this is where the realism
comes in. This is where the pragmatism
comes in. This is where you can't have
the traditional benefits without the
traditional role. If you want a man to
perform the traditional function, guess
what? He's looking for a woman who's
going to perform her traditional
function. So, you don't have to go for a
traditional man. That's your choice. But
if you want the traditional man and the
benefits that come with that, you need
to somehow get okay with the idea of
being the traditional wife. Because
being a traditional wife, it looks a
certain way, just like a traditional
husband looks a certain way. No one's
forcing you to to go that route. It's up
to you. It's your choice. But you can't
have both. You can't have it both ways.
You can't say you you don't get to tell
me to do this. Uh, you know, I'm not
going to let a man tell me to do that.
I'm not going to die. But you have to
pay my bills though because Islam says
Exactly. Exactly. But na the same woman
or maybe sometimes this is an archetype
of woman, right? We're not talking about
a woman, but the same archetypal type of
woman we're talking about here, she will
uh she will easily bow the knee when it
comes to her white uh boss McDonald's or
whatever she's working or in the car
wash or I don't know where she works.
anywhere she may work in the cleaning
cleaning place or it could be in the
office where she has to even flirt with
the man a little bit and to get what she
wants. So she she it's contextual. It's
not about oh I I don't believe in
obedience. You do believe in obedience.
Every single society and structure works
on a type of hierarchy. You know we as
Muslims we are we believe in a
complimentarity between man and woman.
We don't believe in a negality between
them. We we believe in a hierarchical
managerial structure just as you would
expect if you went and worked in a
secondary school. I was I worked in many
secondary schools. The expectation is is
actually quite sometimes disturbing. You
come in, the head teacher comes in and
all the women are going around him like
sorry uh concubines around the in
something you know you'd think what what
the hell like you know every little word
she says scared and the same woman she's
the biggest feminist when she goes home.
Yeah, this is it's actually boils my
blood especially when it comes from the
Muslim community like oh your husband
you're aligned with him at home but when
you go to you know your place at work
you know the man can tell you what he
wants whatever you do yeah but he's
paying me but he's it's the same
transactional kind of thing but he's
getting all these benefits as well from
the man in fact he's willing to do your
husband is willing much more for you
right so I feel like it's just it is
wholesale acceptance without resistance
these ideologies of the West which
position a woman as only acceptable
or um you know even viable as a as a
subject
if she's in the work environment and
that's what the only context where
obedience makes sense but
Warl Faren says something really good in
his book you know he's got a book called
the myth of male power
and he also got boy crisis
oh yes I've heard of that
yeah is is where where he talk his
recent book but the classic book that he
wrote is called the myth of male power
in in that book he basically he he gives
the example of a woman who works in a
corporate environment. Yeah. And he he
says what would a like this archetype of
woman what would she think if she's now
in charge of more people?
Would she think that that's an expansion
of her power or influence or would she
think that it's less power and
influence? He says he she would think
that it's an expansion of her power and
influence. But when she goes home and
she has more kids, she she sees as more
of a burden. She's encumbered with those
children. She's burdened with them. But
it's but she has more influence on the
children and will have more influence on
those children than she could or ever
will have influence on those employees.
It's the same paradigm but different
environment. The moment it moves into
the domestic environment, the the moment
drudgery starts to appear, this domestic
drudgery starts to appear and becomes uh
the prevailing narrative theme. As you
said, you know, honestly, it's like if
if it's in this context, it's
oppression. If it's in this context,
it's professionalism. You see how they
change the words? You're you're being
professional professional when you're
listening to your boss, but you are you
are a slave oppressed your home when
you're in the house, you know, listening
to the hierarchy there.
And it's just it's a play on lexicon and
they've been able to dup half of the
population so they can pull them out of
home so that they can stimulate their
economies and
and and quite frankly they men are the
biggest beneficiaries of this ideology.
True. I I was just
true. I 100% 100% agree with you. I I
agree because you know the the Anyway,
alhamdulillah I think the the steep
decline that you know we've seen in
terms of you know sexual morality since
the 60s um I think our dean has managed
to to to to shield us from the worst of
that. Obviously in Muslim countries
there is a slow burn. Um but for lots of
different reasons it just hasn't been
you know sort of the steep downward
whatever as it is in the west. But but
but but even if we are not having you
know partners before marriage if even if
we're not kind of having a hot girl
summer and all of that kind of thing the
ideas are all around us. And that's why
I think it's really important to have
these open conversations and really get
young men and women to examine the the
forces around them and examine the ideas
that they're surrounded by and and learn
more about their Islamic grounding so
that they have an effective filter for
those ideas that are around us.
Otherwise, we're just going to go the
ways the way of the people went before.
We're just going to follow them like a
lizard in the hole.
You're right. to finalize this
discussion. It's been a pleasure talking
to you by the way and Allah has been
very very fruitful. Uh and I thank you
so much for wah your insights. They have
been good and you've articulated
yourself very well. I'm going to steal
some of your articulations and repackage
them my own way. Traditional roles,
traditional responsibilities, you know,
it's there you you you have the gift of
uh of being able to to summarize things.
But I was going to ask you this question
which is a parting advice now for Muslim
men and Muslim women young let's say
call them millennials call them whatever
you want starting up yeah this this
channel the demographic of it
maybe 18 to 35 18 to 45 that's the kind
of major age group there so a lot of men
a lot of women are going to start up
families and stuff like that what advice
would you give a young man let's start
with the man right advice you would give
based on your extensive experience in
the community and your own life
experience experience on how to what to
look out for, what are the blind spots,
what should we do, what should we look
out for
a young man starting up and the same
advice for a young woman.
Allah so the first thing that I would
say is echoing what we said before which
is to get your grounding in your dean.
The second thing I would say is pay
attention to your mental health and make
sure that you are a healthy mind, body,
soul because a healthy person moving
forward in life into a partnership with
another healthy person, what do you
have? You have a healthy marriage. So
that advice is for both is to learn your
dean and get healthy. I mean that
holistically. Mind, body, and soul get
healthy. If you're struggling, get help.
If you are confused, get help. You know,
don't think that a marriage or a husband
or a wife is going to solve any issues
that you have, any anything that you're
carrying with you. You don't want to
take that into a marriage, right? You've
got any addictions, anything like that.
And I say this because this generation,
it seems to be, is the mentally the most
fragile generation that we've probably
ever seen. You know, this is the
generation where we have, you know, just
off the charts level of depression,
anxiety, suicidal thoughts, self harm.
And Muslims have it too. We're not
immune.
where you're on Instagram and Tik Tok,
halos. Okay, it's it's game over, right?
So, that's what I would say. The first
thing, learn your dean and get healthy
and choose a healthy partner. Understand
what it means to be a wife. Understand
what it means to be a husband and
actively learn and cultivate those
qualities within you. Unfortunately,
it's something that it's not really
spoken about. What does it mean to be a
wife? I was thinking to myself, if I was
to do a video, for example, you know,
are you wife material? I don't actually
think that a lot of young people could
even say what wife material is. You know
what I mean? Husband material. I think
people know kind of what husband
material is. Okay, I need to provide and
protect, you know, whatever. But wife
material, I think a lot of people are
confused because we've got our own way
of valuing ourselves as women that has
nothing to do with being a wife and has
nothing to do with what men are looking
for when they look for a wife, right? Uh
so, so these are some of the
conversations to have with yourself.
main thing is be healthy. Look for
someone healthy to build with and make a
commitment that is based on something
bigger than yourselves. It's not just a
pleasure thing. It's not just a fun
thing. It's not just like a good time
thing. It's not like Tik Tok. It's not
like Pinterest. It's a commitment. And
inshallah, Allah will bless you with joy
and happiness and good times. But it
will come at a cost. You will have to
sacrifice. You have to understand that
and be prepared to do that, inshallah.
and just make a decision to say healthy
children will come from me. You know, a
healthy lineage is going to come from me
and mine inshallah. And I'm going to do
everything in my power to ensure the
health of my family unit and those who
come up after me. Inshallah. We have 10,
100, a thousand, 50,000 people who've
made that decision and are on that path.
Subhan Allah. Look how it would affect
our communities. Would be a it would
change the game completely.
Precious advice. and you've killed two
birds with one stone with that m can you
tell us where we can see we read some of
your books or where where are you on
social media where we can see some of
your kind of uh videos or or any
programs that you're doing for young men
young women in particular I know you do
a lot of stuff where can we where can we
get that stuff
uh I'm on all the platforms Instagram
Facebook Twitter YouTube Naima B Robert
and all my books are available on Amazon
also just search Naima B Robert and you
will find all 25 of them there
alhamdulillah
fantastic mah you've done a great job
and uh I really had a enjoyable and
fruitful conversation with you.
Hopefully we'll do it another time.
And um for those who are watching at
home, we've we have kind of maybe you
could argue diverted a little bit from
the remit. Uh but a lot of these issues
which have been discussed today really
do affect the Muslim community and they
do need to be spoken about and I think
uh many if not most especially on this
channel will agree that sister Naima has
done a wonderful job in tackling those
issues. Until next time.